Setting up and tearing down unit tests:

Setup and tear down

set up - the "contructor of the testing class - fill out more here

tear down - closes all open connections - fill out more here




Test doubles: generic term for any case where you replace replace a production object for testing purposes.

	its fake objects that subsitute other objects in the codebase
	They allow yo: Test a unit in total isolation
			Substitute components not yet developed
			Speed up test execution

Types of test doubles:

	mock: sending something to a database
	stub: Emulating incoming call. (data coming from an end point or database)


Unit Testing: best practices:

	Each unit test must verify one and only one behaviour.
		avoid chaining arrange, act and assert sections
		unit tests may easyly become an integration test
	Avoid branching (no if,switch,while or for)

Cover the business logic, and not much else. (only write unit tests if there is business logic)

	Code is not an assert but a liability
		more code -> higher risk of bugs
	if code architecture changes, tests may also change.

Act section must only be one line of code
	otherwise there may be errors in code design
	if the test fails with a big act, its hard to know what went wrong.

use a comprehensive approach to test case design
	perform black-box test desing
		look for numering boundaries and thier surroundings
	Do positive and negative testing
	complete the suite with tests chases

All unit tests should be run upon every code change, no matter how small -> regression testing
Good code design and structure is of the essense
	tight couplign prevent writing unit tests
write pure methods as often as posible (return the same output based on the same input)

Unit Testing anti-patterns
	never test private methods directly
		testing is then based in observable behaviour
		tests become coupled ti implementation
			tests are no longer resistant to refactoring
		if you need to tests a private method, use the white box technique and your knowledge of the code to give the tests the parameters its needs to reach said private method.


Do never expose private state

try to write a tests for the what the user would see.

Do not leak domain knowlodfe to the unit test
	Always use hardcoded values or mock!

avoid code polution! - changing your code for tests


Private vs Shared dependensices

	private dependencies occur between code units.
	shared dependencies are those that 
		are shared between tests
		tend to slow down the execution
		provide means for tests to effect each others outcome
			fx databases
				if one deletes a row and anthoer tests searches for it, the execution of the first test makes the second test fail.
	Unit tests involving shared dependencies might be considered integration tests.

for the exam, be able to say what a unit test and integration test is for you.

Volatile dependencies

	Introduce a requirement to configure a runtime environment
		a database an API service
	contain nondeterministic behaviour
		a random numbergenerator
very difficult to test
a database is both a shared and a volitile dependency

The classical Approach: a single unit of behaviour

(Detroit approach)

use tests doubles only to replace shared dependencies.
"sociable" unit tests: collaborators are not mocked
isolation of the unit tests, not tof the code under test

The London approach ( the mockist approach) a single unit of code

recommends to replace all dependencies by test doubles except for immutable dependencies(constants , enums)

solidary unit tests: collaborators are mocked.
total isolation of the code under test.
benefits: small, if a error is found you know precisly where the error is.






