white box testing is based on the structure of the code, your knowledge of the code, or a tools knowlegde of the code.

the ideer of white box testing is reaching code( like hitting all "end points")


Test coverage:

techniques: statement and decison coverage

some love it, other hate it. 

its an assesment technique and therefor for ppl outside coding likes the objective metherd of coverage.

but! 100 coverage is really difficult/complecated. making enough test can be really time cunsuming, and alot of the tests could be unnessesary. 

a number of 75% coverage if good! but what if the remaining 25% is the importen parts of the application?

testing trivial code does not give value.. but it does give coverage.

Statement Coevreage:

its basecly a focus on covering all executable code statements. 
measured: percentage of executale lines of code tested.

the numbers of returns in the methord is the minimum amount of tests cases you need. If else satements also increases the amount of test cases

only focusing on the coverage, you could end up writing bad tests just for the coverage. 

(please write a simple examples with inline explanations of stement coverage)

in alot of situations its not a reliable measure, and for the most part a "political tool" for showing the bosses we are doing something.

Decision Coverage also called  branch coverage:

every branch has to be tested atleast once. 

100% decision coverage = 100% statements coverage, but not the otherway around. 

a lot better than just coverage.

refactoring should not influence decison coverage.

key is to find the none existing else'ses.

(please write simple examples with inline explanations about Decision Coverage)

write your tests with both black and white box techniques in mind. We should always use all ours tools at our dispotial to write good tests.

box -> white -> intuition -> you end up with good and valid tests.

general rule, usually 1 test is enough for a loop.

big fan of data provider, we should use them as often as posible

Experience-based techniques:

used when: 
	specifications is not adequate
	this is no time to run full structured tests: leave the company xD
	there are experienced professionals in the team
	as an addition to structured tests

Techniques:

Error guessing
	fault attack = software attack often used in security

Exploratory testing
	session based exploratory testing. Time-limited

Checklisting-based testing

Static testing: Static code analysis


is when we dont execute the code. dynamic testing is running the code.

static testing helps find errors early in the life of the project, like a missing ;

its finds causes of failures not actual failures.

techniques: Review and static code analysis

static code analysis is for finding syntax errors, enforce coding standards, test coverage.

usually done with tools

if can and should run the CI pipeline. 

typicaly helps finding: variables not being used, reference to variable with undefinded value, dead code, use of deprecated functionalities, violations of standeards, protential security issues.

find so called "code smells", where your code looks sloppy.

really usefull for weakly typed languges.
 